README.md, before:

# RL agent for generalised tic-tac-toe (m,n,k-game)

## The m,n,k-game (tic-tac-toe)

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M,n,k-game) description: 
'An m,n,k-game is an abstract board game in which two players take turns in placing a stone of their color on an m×n board, the winner being the player who first gets k stones of their own color in a row, horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. Thus, tic-tac-toe is the 3,3,3-game and free-style gomoku is the 15,15,5-game. An m,n,k-game is also called a k-in-a-row game on an m×n board.'                 

## Description 

The repository contains an implementation to play an [m,n,k-game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M,n,k-game). Two AI agents are included: a minimiax algorithm with alpha-beta pruning and a Reinforcment Learing (RL) agent (for more detail on the implementation look at `/playres/rl_agent.py`). 
No heuristics are included for the minimax agent and as such it always searches until a winner is found in the game which makes it too slow for any value of m, n, k > 3. This is the reason for the introduction of the RL agent: rather than introduce human-designed huristics, let the agent reach human level (or better) play through RL and self-play.


## Usage


- Clone the repository to the desired location `git clone https://github.com/LNS98/Generalised-tic-tac-toe-RL-agent.git`

- Install the dependencies in the `requirements.txt` file. 

- To play a game run `python play.py` followed by the following command line arguments:
    - m: a positive integer defining the number of rows in the game
    - n: a positive integer defining the number of columns in the game
    - k: number of consecutives objects for a win 
    - player X type: Choose between human, a minimax algorithm (with alpha-beta pruning) and a RL player 
    - Player O: Choose between human, a minimax algorithm (with alpha-beta pruning) and a RL player

<strong> Note: Minimax will be to slow to play against for values of m > 3, n > 3, k >3, unless you are really (really) patient as it will search until a winning position is found (in other words, no maximum depth can be set). It is the reason for introducing the RL agent in the first place. </strong>


- To train a specific RL agent run `python train_rl_agent.py` followed by the following command line arguments:
    - m: a positive integer defining the number of rows in the game
    - n: a positive integer defining the number of columns in the game
    - k: number of consecutives objects for a win 
    - epsilon: a number between 0-1 specifying the initial exploration rate for the agent. 
    - gamma: discount factor for future rewards for the agent. 
    - minimax_depth: depth to which the agent performs a minimax (with alpha-beta prununing) before estimating values for next move through a deep q-network.

<strong>Note: The q-networks weights will be saved after every 100 games for both 'X' and 'O' player in the specified weights folder (see Repository Guide for more information). </strong>
 
## Repository Guide 

- `play.py` - Used to play the game, need to specify arguments as specified in usage. 

- `train_rl_agent.py` - Used to train the RL agent, hyper-parameters for training have to be specified.

- `players/` - Contains files for each of the implementation of the agents.
           
     - `base_player.py` - Contains class for the human player and the parent class used in the other two agent class.
     - `minimaxAlphaBeta_player.py` - Contains class for the minimax (with alpha-beta pruning) agent implementation.
     - `rl_player.py` - Contains class for the RL agent implementation.
            
- `setup/` - Contains files for the implentation of the board and game.
           
     - `board.py` - Contains class for the board used in the creation of the game.
     - `game.py` - Contains class for the implementation of the game.  

- `weights/` - Folder used to store the weights of the RL algorithms that are trained. Subdirectories are created based on the game details for every type of agent created. The file names of the agent will correspond to the selected hyper-paramets with order: epsilon, gamma, minimax depth. For example if X, O agents are trained on a m=3, n=3, k=3 game with hyper-parameters, epsilon=1, gamma=1, minimiax_depth=3. Then the weights will be saved in `weights/3_3_3_X/1_1_3.pth` for the X player and `weights/3_3_3_O/1_1_3.pth`.

Commit message:

add constants to train_rl_agent file

README.md, after:

# RL agent for generalised tic-tac-toe (m,n,k-game)

## The m,n,k-game (tic-tac-toe)

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M,n,k-game) description: 
'An m,n,k-game is an abstract board game in which two players take turns in placing a stone of their color on an m×n board, the winner being the player who first gets k stones of their own color in a row, horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. Thus, tic-tac-toe is the 3,3,3-game and free-style gomoku is the 15,15,5-game. An m,n,k-game is also called a k-in-a-row game on an m×n board.'                 

## Description 

The repository contains an implementation to play an [m,n,k-game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M,n,k-game). Two AI agents are included: a minimiax algorithm with alpha-beta pruning and a Reinforcment Learing (RL) agent (for more detail on the implementation look at `/playres/rl_agent.py`). 
No heuristics are included for the minimax agent and as such it always searches until a winner is found in the game which makes it too slow for any value of m, n, k > 3. This is the reason for the introduction of the RL agent: rather than introduce human-designed huristics, let the agent reach human level (or better) play through RL and self-play.


## Usage


- Clone the repository to the desired location `git clone https://github.com/LNS98/Generalised-tic-tac-toe-RL-agent.git`

- Install the dependencies in the `requirements.txt` file. 

- To play a game run `python play.py` followed by the following command line arguments:
    - m: a positive integer defining the number of rows in the game
    - n: a positive integer defining the number of columns in the game
    - k: number of consecutives objects for a win 
    - player X type: Choose between human, a minimax algorithm (with alpha-beta pruning) and a RL player 
    - Player O: Choose between human, a minimax algorithm (with alpha-beta pruning) and a RL player

<strong> Note: Minimax will be to slow to play against for values of m > 3, n > 3, k >3, unless you are really (really) patient as it will search until a winning position is found (in other words, no maximum depth can be set). It is the reason for introducing the RL agent in the first place. </strong>


- To train a specific RL agent run `python train_rl_agent.py` followed by the following command line arguments:
    - m: a positive integer defining the number of rows in the game
    - n: a positive integer defining the number of columns in the game
    - k: number of consecutives objects for a win 
  

<strong>Note: All the hyper-parameters for the agents are set as constants at the top of this file. </strong>
 
## Repository Guide 

- `play.py` - Used to play the game, need to specify arguments as specified in usage. 

- `train_rl_agent.py` - Used to train the RL agent, hyper-parameters for training have to be specified.

- `players/` - Contains files for each of the implementation of the agents.
           
     - `base_player.py` - Contains class for the human player and the parent class used in the other two agent class.
     - `minimaxAlphaBeta_player.py` - Contains class for the minimax (with alpha-beta pruning) agent implementation.
     - `rl_player.py` - Contains class for the RL agent implementation.
            
- `setup/` - Contains files for the implentation of the board and game.
           
     - `board.py` - Contains class for the board used in the creation of the game.
     - `game.py` - Contains class for the implementation of the game.  

- `weights/` - Folder used to store the weights of the RL algorithms that are trained. Files are created for a specific game selected to which each player's weights will be saved. For example if weights are selected to be saved for a m=3, n=3, k=3 game then both player X and O will be saved in folders: `weights/3_3_3_x.pth` and `weights/3_3_3_o.pth`
